So now I'm going to walk through the process of creating a Docker container.
And ultimately, within the next clip, we'll be deploying this with the CDK.
But here within this clip,
we'll first be creating a directory structure for
Docker containers within our project.
Then, we'll be implementing a TypeScript express webserver.
We'll then be configuring a Dockerfile and testing our container locally.
So let's dive in.
So I'm here within VS Code,
and the first step is I need to create a couple of folders.
So first, I'm going to go in and create a new folder,
and we're going to call this containers.
And this would be a folder where you could put any of the
containers you would have within your application,
and you would put each of them in their own folder.
And so I'm going to create another folder here called webserver.
Now here within webserver, I'm going to create a new package.json file.
And then here,
I'm just going to use a template to just put in a default package.json file,
and we'll call this express‑webserver.
I'm going to save this, and now I'm going to navigate over to the terminal.
So here in the terminal, I'm in the base directory for my project.
And so I want to change into the containers directory
and then the webserver directory.
Now the next thing I'm going to do is I need to install some dependencies.
So here, I'm going to be installing Axios,
and I'm going to be installing a specific version.
So this is actually one back from the current version,
but there is an error that happens in TypeScript
compilation with the current version.
So that's why I'm using this one.
You can try out the current version when you take this course.
But just know if you see an error when you try to compile your TypeScript files,
this might be the cause of it.
I'm also installing EJS, which I'll use for our view templates,
and then Express, which we'll use as our web server.
Now that we have that in place,
I'm going to install some development dependencies.
First, it's going to be TypeScript,
and then I'm going to install the types for both Express and Node.
Now that I have that in place, I'm going to head back over to VS Code.
Now the next step I need to take is I need to go under my webserver directory,
and I'm going to create a new file,
and this is going to be tsconfig Now you might be surprised by
this because we already have a tsconfig file.
But just know here,
the build process is going to take everything within our webserver directory,
and it's going to put it onto a Docker container.
So here,
we can't rely on it being able to go up the directory
structure to get to our current tsconfig file.
It's just cleaner to include it here.
So here, I'm going to have a base configuration,
and this base configuration makes a few assumptions.
First of all,
it assumed that our TypeScript files are going to be in a src directory
and it's going to output them to a dist directory.
Now this is important because this will factor into our
Dockerfile that we'll create in just a bit.
But with this being said, I need to create a src directory.
Now within our src directory, I'm going to create a new file,
and it's going to be app.ts. Now here within our app.ts file, this is
where we're going to set up our Express web server.
So here within our app.ts file, we're currently importing
Express, the path module from Node and Axios,
which we'll use to make an HTTP request to our API.
I want to call out though that we are requiring two
different environment variables here.
The first is SERVER_PORT, and that's going to be the port that our
Express Server will run on, and the second is API_BASE,
which is going to be the base URL for the HTTP API that we deployed within the
last module. And here, we're going to use that as the base to then call the API.
We're then creating our Express Server, and then we're specifying a views
directory. And this is going to be directly under the webserver directory, we
need to create a folder called views.
So we'll do that next.
And then we're specifying that EJS is the view engine.
We have one route configured, and it's going to call our
asynchronous getDocuments function,
and that function is going to call our API and return an array of documents.
We're then going to pass that array into our index template.
So with that said, we need to create our index view.
So I'm going to go under webserver, we're going to say New
Folder, and we're going to call it views. Within views,
we're going to create a new file, and it's going to be index.ejs.
So here, I've got a snippet that we'll just put a very basic template in place.
Here we have an h2 title, and then we're looping over all
the documents in an unordered list, and we're outputting them as links.
So now that we have this in place,
we're ready to start looking at our Dockerfile.
So here, I'm going to create a new file,
and we're going to call this Dockerfile. And here within our Dockerfile,
we're doing something called a multistage build.
We're using one container to build our application,
and it's going to run npm install, and then it's going to run build ts,
and that's going to compile our TypeScript file.
Now we need to actually implement that within our
package.json file, so we'll do that next.
After that,
it's running npm prune to remove everything except our production dependencies.
And then, we have another container, and this is
going to be our serving container.
And here, it's going to copy the files over from our dist
directory, views directory, Node modules, and package.json
file into the new container.
And then we'll expose port 8080, and then we will
actually run Node on our app.js file,
which is the compiled version of our TypeScript file.
So now that I have this in place,
I'm going to navigate back over into my package.json file.
So here within our scripts object, we need to add in a few things.
First, we need to specify build ts,
and this is what's going to be used to build our TypeScript files.
Now we're just going to use the TypeScript compiler here, so we can
just use tsc. But we need to add to additional things.
We need to have the ability to both build and run our Docker container. So
I'm going to add both of those in. So here, first to build, we're simply
calling docker build on the current directory.
But for docker run,
we're telling it to bind local port 8080 to the container port 8080. We're
then telling it to use server port 8080, and I'm passing in the current URL
for our HTTP API. So with all of this said,
let's go to the terminal and test out our Docker container So now I'm going
to run npm run docker and then build. And we can see that it has built our
container And now I'm going to do npm run docker run. And now we can see
that it has launched our container.
So now I'm going to navigate over to the browser.
So here, within the browser,
I'm going to load localhost and port 8080, and now we can see
that it has returned a list of our documents.
And with this I'm able to open a document in a new tab, and I
can see that it has opened it correctly using the signed URL
that we generated from within the API.
Now that we have this in place, in the next clip, we're going to walk through the process of deploying it onto Fargate.